  • 搜狐首页
  • 新闻
  • 体育
  • 汽车
  • 房产
  • 旅游
  • 教育
  • 时尚
  • 科技
  • 财经
  • 娱乐
  • 更多
    母婴健康历史军事美食文化星座专题游戏搞笑动漫宠物
  • 无障碍

西方国家的种族歧视曾经多可怕？

2021-06-01 13:47 来源: 不可思议先生

原标题：西方国家的种族歧视曾经多可怕？

2020年5月25日，46岁的非洲裔男子乔治·弗洛伊德在明尼阿波利斯街头遭白人警察德雷克·
肖万跪压颈部9分29秒窒息死亡。“警官，求求你，求求你，我无法呼吸……”这是被白人警察
压住脖子窒息而亡的黑人男子乔治·弗洛伊德用尽最后气力发出的哀求。“无法呼吸”的呻吟
声，让美国社会种族歧视的陈年疮疤一次次重新揭开，令人悲伤无奈，令人激愤难抑。

在美加等西方国家，白人至上种族主义问题持续已久，曾经给非白人群体造成的伤痛，已
经鲜有人知。

#1.

1921年5月31日，美国俄克拉何马州塔尔萨市发生了骇人听闻的“塔尔萨大屠杀”。数百名非
洲裔被白人暴徒屠戮。3K党徒出动双翼飞机携带土制炸弹对繁华的“黑人华尔街”展开狂轰
滥炸，成为美国本土第一次大轰炸。

有“黑华尔街”之称的格林伍德区，一夜之间化为废墟，数百名非裔美国人被杀害，超过35
个街区，1200多栋房屋被夷为平地。

[1f593270e2]

令人匪夷所思的是，这场被称为"美国历史上最严重的种族暴乱"的起因，竟是因为白人暴
徒试图用极端的私刑处罚一位还未被审判有罪的黑人少年。

1921年5月30日星期一，一名19岁的黑人鞋匠迪克·罗兰进入德雷克塞尔（Drexel）的电梯
，到顶层使用卫生间（因为种族隔离政策，这是黑人唯一能使用的卫生间）。他遇到了17
岁的白人电梯值班人员女工佩琪，两人之间似乎发生了什么，引得女生尖叫。

当迪克罗兰走下电梯的时候，一楼服装店的员工看到黑人走出，顿时浮想联翩，他误以为
是黑人殴打甚至是强奸了女工佩琪，此后她看见佩琪心烦意乱的样子，竟觉得自己的判断
是对的，于是赶忙报警。

美国警察迅速出动，在5月31日他们在格林伍德区逮到了迪克罗兰，但佩琪却表示不会对迪
克罗兰提出任何的指控。

不过塔尔萨区的白人们却并没有善罢甘休。尽管迪克罗兰还未曾被审判，连那个电梯女工
都不曾坦白事情经过。但激进的白人们似乎断定，这是一场"强奸"或者是"袭击"事件，出
于"正义感"，他们竟然公开要求警察局交出"犯人"，由他们处以私刑。当天，暴徒聚拢到
监狱门口要求司法机关交出犯人，消息传到格林伍德区的黑人社区，数十名黑人携带武器
抵达了迪克罗兰所在的监狱进行防御。就此，一场针对塔尔萨城黑人的暴乱一触即发。

展开全文

这场暴乱后，全白陪审团竟然将暴乱的责任全都推到了黑人头上，同时，没有任何白人因
为杀人、放火、抢劫受到起诉。

[43024c6e48]

大屠杀已经过去了100年，美国社会种族主义、种族歧视和仇外暴力的问题仍然没有得到解
决。

The Greenwood district of Tulsa, Oklahoma, once known as "Black Wall Street,"
was razed to the ground by an angry white mob on May 31, 1921.

The 1921 Tulsa Massacre, one of the most violent racial attacks in U.S.
history, left between 100 and 300 people dead according to various sources,
while more than 1,200 houses were burned to the ground,

Prior to the massacre, only a couple of generations removed from slavery,
unfettered Black prosperity in America was urban legend. But Tulsa's Greenwood
district was far from a myth, as the AP reports.

Many Black residents took jobs working for families on the white side of Tulsa,
and some lived in detached servant quarters on weekdays. Others were shoeshine
boys, chauffeurs, doormen, bellhops or maids at high-rise hotels, banks and
office towers in downtown Tulsa, where white men who amassed wealth in the oil
industry were "kings."

Tensions between Tulsa's Black and white populations inflamed when, on May 31,
1921, the white-owned Tulsa Tribune published a sensationalized report
describing an alleged assault on Sarah Page, a 17-year-old white girl working
as an elevator operator, by Dick Rowland, a 19-year-old Black shoeshine.

Rowland was arrested. A white mob gathered outside the jail. Word that some in
the mob intended to kidnap and lynch Rowland made it to Greenwood, where two
dozen Black men armed themselves and arrived at the jail to aid the sheriff in
protecting the prisoner.

Their offer was rebuffed and they were sent away. But following a separate
deadly clash between the lynch mob and the Greenwood men, white Tulsans took
the sight of angry, armed Black men as evidence of an imminent Black uprising.

There were those who said that what followed was not as spontaneous as it
seemed: that the mob intended to drive Black people out of the city entirely,
or at least to drive them further away from the city's white enclaves.

Over 18 hours, between May 31 and June 1, whites vastly outnumbering the Black
militia carried out a scorched-earth campaign against Greenwood. Some witnesses
claimed they saw and heard airplanes overhead firebombing and shooting at
businesses, homes and people in the Black district.

More than 35 city blocks were leveled, an estimated 191 businesses were
destroyed, and roughly 10,000 Black residents were displaced from the
neighborhood where they'd lived, learned, played, worked and prospered.

Today, 100 years after the massacre, racism, racial discrimination and
xenophobic violence still suffocate the United States.

#2.

当地时间5月27日，加拿大哥伦比亚省坎卢普斯市发表声明说，215具原住民孩童遗骸在当
地一所印第安人寄宿学校旧址被发现。

[add9dfa708]

当地原住民领袖Rossanne Casimir在声明中说，“据我们所知，这些失踪的孩童并没有被登
记为死亡人员”。当地卫生局表示，此事让哥伦比亚省乃至全加拿大的原住民都深受影响，
“这种现象的存在令人惋惜但并不意外，说明了寄宿学校制度给第一民族带来的毁灭与长期
影响仍继续存在，他们的社区和家庭都无法避免。”

印第安人寄宿学校制度是加拿大政府对原住民进行种族灭绝的黑暗历史之一。当时，加拿
大政府从原住民家里把15万个孩子抢走，送到这种寄宿学校，强迫他们接受所谓的白人教
育，却不允许这些孩子与父母和家人见面。这种寄宿学校制度导致大量儿童死亡，很多儿
童遭到白人教师的性侵犯和各种虐待，活下来的也终身无法忘记童年的痛苦。

加拿大和解与真相委员会根据死亡记录，估计有4100名原住民孩童死于寄宿学校，而实际
数字远比这个高得多。以这所寄宿学校为例，该校登记的死亡孩童是50名，但是仅这一次
发现就多达215人、且全都没有登记为死亡。

The remains of 215 children, some as young as three years old, were found at
the site of a former residential school for indigenous children, a discovery
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau described as heartbreaking on Friday.

The children were students at the Kamloops Indian Residential School in British
Columbia that closed in 1978, according to the Tk'emlúps te Secwépemc Nation,
which said the remains were found with the help of a ground penetrating radar
specialist.

"We had a knowing in our community that we were able to verify," Tk'emlúps te
Secwépemc Chief Rosanne Casimir said in a statement. "At this time, we have
more questions than answers."

Canada's residential school system, which forcibly separated indigenous
children from their families, constituted "cultural genocide," a six-year
investigation into the now-defunct system found in 2015.

The report documented horrific physical abuse, rape, malnutrition and other
atrocities suffered by many of the 150,000 children who attended the schools,
typically run by Christian churches on behalf of Ottawa from the 1840s to the
1990s.

It found more than 4,100 children died while attending residential school. The
deaths of the 215 children buried in the grounds of what was once Canada's
largest residential school are believed to not have been included in that
figure and appear to have been undocumented until the discovery.

免责声明：本文所用内容、图片素材均来源于网络，版权归原作者所有，如有侵权请及时
在后台与小编联系，我们将及时处理。返回搜狐，查看更多

责任编辑：

声明：该文观点仅代表作者本人，搜狐号系信息发布平台，搜狐仅提供信息存储空间服务
。
阅读 ()
 
推荐阅读
[04eaf7bda7]
不可思议先生
文章总阅读
 
 免费获取
今日搜狐热点

6秒后
进入搜狐首页
 
今日推荐

 
进入搜狐首页
意见反馈  
